
The divergent use of digital technologies provides an important opportunity for students to develop critical and postdigital approaches to learning. Despite the rising accessibility of music technology, creatively composed sound is a relatively underexplored educational tool compared to the musical elements of melody, rhythm, and lyrics. Sound’s ability to transfer spatial and temporal information renders it a transformative tool for teaching and learning. Embracing an interdisciplinary approach, our research explores the possibility of supplementing secondary science education with a sound-based learning tool which creatively interprets scientific concepts to increase comprehension and engagement. Building on the existing ways in which science is communicated through music and sound, we have developed the _Sonaphor_ (abbreviated from ‘sonic metaphor’). This article will outline the capacity for experimental electronic sound design to increase engagement in contexts ranging from classrooms through to informal learning environments. We see potential for the _Sonaphor_ as a learning tool that reignites wonder and curiosity in science; it combines learning and creativity in sound design and science, allowing learners to interact with, and create their own _Sonaphors_. Through exemplar _Sonaphors_, we highlight a proposed structure and discuss the importance of harmonious script, dialogue, and sound design. The flexibility of the digital medium and increasing ubiquity of sound recording and editing software presents an opportunity for _Sonaphors_ to become ‘living’ digital objects that could be adapted by different narrators, sound designers, and artists for different cultures, languages, syllabi, and purposes that build inclusivity in science education and communication.